surprise [ __ ] I bet you thought you'd
seen the last of me everyone's favorite
foul-mouthed witch is back in American
Horror Story apocalypse so let's spend
the next few minutes recapping
everything we know about Madison
Montgomery GameSpot universes one true
supreme you can't disqualify me either
i'm supreme or i'm not and obviously i
am before we get started make sure you
subscribe to the channel so you don't
miss any of our American Horror Story
coverage including our weekly breakdowns
also let us know which other characters
you'd like to see us explore Madison
Montgomery is played by the talented
Emma Roberts and she's one of the young
witches we met when we were first
introduced to the coven in season 3 now
Madison's childhood was extremely
difficult she grew up in a small poor
family and her parents struggled to keep
steady jobs
this led Madison's mom to kind of force
her into beauty and talent pageants in
hopes of grooming a child star and
that's exactly what happened as
Madison's career became the family's
lifeline as the years passed the budding
starlets a party girl within Hollywood
circles and was often the target of the
paparazzi but her career in front of the
camera came to an end as her special
talents emerged during an argument with
her director Madison used telekinesis to
drop a spotlight and kill the poor guy
the light hit him just fine all he said
was hit your mark that's right she
murdered an innocent man because she
couldn't take any criticism
never mind Madison kind of sucks the
first time we meet Madison is when Zoe
arrives at miss robichaux's Academy for
exceptional young ladies what better way
to introduce yourself to the new kid
than scare the living [ __ ] out of her
[Applause]
Jesus sobrino relax we're just messing
with you but it's not all Madison's
fault though as nan and Queenie joined
her on the prank let's be honest though
Madison isn't really friends with anyone
sure she's beautiful and charismatic but
she's extremely self-centered and
egotistical after yet another fight at
dinner with the girls she's almost
forced to invite Zoe to a frat party
taking place nearby within the first few
minutes of the party no surprise here
Madison catches the attention of one
frat boy in particular she commands him
to get her a drink and he does but he
also spikes her drink with roofies in
one of the most horrific scenes from the
series a half-conscious Madison is
gang-raped by a group of frat boys they
quickly flee the scene and as they drive
away Madison uses her powers to flip the
party bus upside down
[Applause]
[Music]
only two of the frat boys survived the
crash including the main rapist Zoey
decides to get revenge for Madison by
using her gift while he recovers in the
hospital room yes it's one of the
craziest scenes ever in the show to
repay her Madison help Zoey bring her
crush Kyle back from the dead he was the
only redeemable one of the bunch the
resurrection though doesn't go so
smoothly they collect a whole bunch of
different body parts and they do their
best to make it work we take the best
boy parts we attach them to Kyle's head
and we build perfect I'm not so sure he
ends up being the perfect boyfriend but
say hello to zombie Kyle
fast forward and let's discuss what led
up to Madison's first death that's right
she dies twice in coven some new
neighbors moved in next door Joan Ramsey
and her son Luke Madison makes it no
secret that she likes Luke but his mom
doesn't approve so Madison flips out and
lights the Ramseys curtains on fire
which catches the attention of Fiona the
reigning supreme takes Madison under her
wing or more likely felt threatened by
Madison's expanding powers Fiona
eventually reveals that she's dying of
cancer and that Madison must be the
ascending supreme that's draining her
life force one late night at the school
Fiona pleads with Madison to kill her
using the same exact knife that Fiona
used to murder the previous supreme
unsurprisingly Fiona then slashes
Madison's throat no way in hell was this
an accident again Fiona had Spaulding
cover up a murder for her he ends up
adding Madison's corpse to his doll
collection creepy dude but being the
good friend that she is Zoe seeks to
bring Madison back from the dead she
tracks down the body and after
interrogating the tongueless Spaulding
she seeks out misty day to help
resurrect Madison it actually works
Madison is no longer the same person
that she was before them she finds
comfort in her fellow resurrected soul
Kyle and the two sleep together
Zoe finds out about this and isn't all
that happy but then Madison proposes
they have a threesome
[Music]
apparently Zoey's powers won't kill
someone who's already dead
the coven soon finds out that Fiona had
murdered Madison in one of the best
moments from season 3 Madison finally
reveals to Fiona that she's back from
the dead and aiming to become the next
supreme surprise [ __ ] I bet you thought
you'd seen the last of me it turns out
that threesomes are messy even for
witches and dead people
Madison eventually gets jealous when
it's clear Kyle and Zoe are falling in
love she takes her anger out on just
about everyone fighting with Zoe Kyle
and Mistie stupid [ __ ] now Madison
might believe that she's the ascending
supreme but the witches need to prove
themselves by passing the seven wonders
the test takes the lives of both misty
and Zoe leaving Queenie and Madison as
the two remaining challengers Queenie
fails to bring Zoe back to life during
the test of the Talon Vitalis while
Madison refuses to make any attempt
instead she kills a fly and brings it
back to life
nice try Madison
[Music]
she lost fair and square it's not my
fault if you refuse this you don't
deserve to be supreme she then attempts
to pass divination to find an item
belonging to the former supreme but she
fails to do so unsurprisingly Madison
throws a tantrum and storms off zombie
Kyle eventually tracks her down and
demands she pay for refusing to bring
Zoe back to life he then strangles
Madison to death as we watched Cordelia
successfully bring Zoe back to life thus
becoming the new supreme luckily this
isn't the last we see of Madison once
again she's brought back to life for
apocalypse a few years before the bombs
wiped out civilization and we found out
that Madison's death had transported her
to her own personal hell literally
working in retail but soon enough
Michael Langdon appeared worked some of
his dark magic and successfully brought
her back to life with Madison and
Queenie in tow a shocked Cordelia
collapses at the sight of Michael's
immense powers and her fellow witches
that she was unable to save
in the present day of Halloween and 2021
Cordelia myrtle and Madison returned to
the Hawthorn school now outpost three to
revive their fallen sisters together it
seems that these coven witches are the
only ones able to stop Michael Langdon
from reaching his goal of the apocalypse
when I'm done you'll all wish you were
still dead I always thought the world
would end with fire and ice not which is
in warlocks
despite having GameSpot universes title
as the true Supreme Madison is not
officially a supreme sure she's strong
but she's not even close to Cordelia's
Lovell Madison has however mastered six
of the seven wonders
obviously her go-to move is telekinesis
like when she killed her director and
flipped that party bus over later on in
the season and we see that she's
mastered pyrokinesis even Madison
herself was surprised when she set the
curtains on fire over at the neighbor's
house she's also mastered Concilium
batalla metallus transmutation and
ascension as we saw during the test of
the seven wonders and if you ask her she
might tell you that she's also a master
at seduction I'll leave you with some
fun facts about Madison there's a chance
that Madison is related to some other
characters we've met before in American
Horror Story specifically back in season
one Murder House Nora and Charles
Montgomery they will write articles
above man one day in the Boston Medical
Journal break everything now we don't
know 100% if they are related but
knowing Ryan Murphy's affection for
connecting these stories in this
universe there's a pretty good chance
we'll find out we know the murder House
crossover is coming later the season and
our fingers are crossed we'll get to see
the Montgomerys again that's it for this
deep dive on Madison Montgomery but hit
me up in the comments or on Twitter at
Ryan Eric P let me know your favorite
Madison Montgomery moments and how you
think she'll play into the rest of the
season also do you think she'll die
again I sure hope not the choice is
yours